The forgotten password function is about to be enhanced so users cannot use the same password twice. They will also be able to enter a forgotten password prompt question/answer if they wish to add one to their account.
1. What questions you would ask your product owner to ensure requirements are met?
2. All features will be delivered using continuous delivery i.e each build goes straight to production without manual intervention. There is no preprod or staging environment with all integrations in place.
a. How can you make sure that this new functionality is ready before it reaches the customer?

1.  questions to the product owner
    Is this functionality applicable for both individual & corporate accounts ?
    What is the exact verbiage that needs to be displayed on ui to indicate the newly set password was used before and cannot be used now ?
    Do we give custom questions/answers or a set of templates with sample questions.
    Do we restrict this functionality to the last x numbers of passwords used ? what could x be ?
    Do we have any Non Functional requirements for this functionality ? accessibility/ perf ?

2.  How can you make sure this functionality is ready?
    Following a TDD based approach write unit tests before the development.
    commit the code to a feature branch, where unit tests pertaining to the module with code changed run.
    Deploy the code to a sandbox environment for exploratory testing
    Write integration, functional tests, load tests, DAST tests
    Push your code to master( Trunk dev) branch along with new integration and functional tests which triggers the CI pipeline
    Run all the unit tests/ code quality & code security static scans
    Run integration, functional tests, load tests, DAST tests specific to code changes
    Automatic Merge to release branch version x.x 
    Run the Regression suite containing Integration, functional tests
    Using canary releases, release to a smaller subset of user base (say 5%)
    Keep Monitoring the feature usage and error rate.
    If all goes well release it to all  users.